[rock music]
♪ ♪
[woman singing in Japanese]
>> narrator: THIS IS THE STORY
OF A MAN WHO CONTINUES TO FIGHT
AGAINST FATE.
SIMON AND THE OTHERS EMERGE
VICTORIOUS FROM THEIR BATTLE
WITH ADIANE, THE ELEGANT.
DURING THEIR BATTLE, YOKO LEARNS
OF NIA’S TRUST IN BOTH HER AND
TEAM DAI‐GURREN.
ANY HARD FEELINGS THAT YOKO
HARBORED AGAINST NIA ARE NOW
DISPELLED.
TEAM DAI‐GURREN’S BONDS OF
LOYALTY HAVE GROWN EVEN
STRONGER.
>> Nia: SIMON, THIS IS WHERE
YOU’VE BEEN.
[Simon gasps]
IS SOMETHING THE MATTER? HMM?
>> Simon: UH...
NO. IT’S JUST...YOU’VE REALLY
CHANGED YOUR IMAGE, NIA.
>> Nia: I KNEW IT.
I LOOK ODD, DON’T I?
>> Simon: NO, YOU DON’T!
NOT ONE BIT!
>> Nia: YOU REALLY MEAN IT?
>> Simon: I SURE DO!
>> Nia: WELL, THEN, THAT’S
A BIG RELIEF.
[both giggling]
BY THE WAY, SIMON...THERE’S
SOMETHING I NEED TO DISCUSS
WITH YOU.
>> Simon: WH‐WHAT IS IT?
>> Nia: THE THING IS, I...
I WANT TO BE PUT TO WORK!
>> Simon: HUH?
>> Nia: IT’S JUST THAT
EVERYONE ELSE IS TOILING AWAY
AT THEIR TASKS.
I CAN’T BEAR TO BE THE ONLY ONE
STANDING AROUND, DOING NOTHING!
I WANT TO DO SOMETHING!
I WANT TO MAKE MYSELF USEFUL!
>> Simon: WELL, THE THING IS,
YOU’RE A PRINCESS, NIA, SO
JUST SEEING YOU WALKING AROUND
AND SMILING IS ENOUGH FOR‐‐
>> Nia: THAT’S NOT TRUE.
I’M NO LONGER A PRINCESS.
>> Simon: OH, YEAH, RIGHT.
WELL, UH...MAYBE, UH...
>> Yoko: SIMON!
WHAT’S THIS I HEAR ABOUT YOU
GOING ALL DAY WITHOUT EATING
ANYTHING?
>> Simon: IT’S NO BIG DEAL,
REALLY. I’LL GRAB A BITE WHEN
I’M HUNGRY.
>> Yoko: UNACCEPTABLE!
YOU’RE THE ONLY ONE WHO CAN
PILOT LAGANN.
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF YOU
PASSED OUT WHEN WE NEEDED YOU?
EATING PROPERLY IS PART OF YOUR
JOB!
>> Nia: EATING PROPERLY IS PART
OF HIS JOB?
>> Yoko: OH, I’M SORRY.
I DIDN’T INTERRUPT SOMETHING,
DID I?
>> Nia: NOT AT ALL.
THANKS TO YOU, I HAVE MY ANSWER!
>> Yoko: OH...GREAT?
>> Simon: YOU HAVE YOUR ANSWER?
>> Yoko: ANYWAY, I’M GONNA
BORROW SIMON FOR A LITTLE WHILE.
I SWEAR, YOU NEVER GROW UP.
>> Nia: I BELIEVE I’VE FOUND
IT.
I’VE FINALLY FOUND MY JOB.
[machine beeping]
>> Yoko: WHAT’S WRONG WITH
ROSSIU?
>> Ron: I’M AFRAID I CAN’T
PINPOINT THE EXACT CAUSE, BUT
NOTHING SEEMS PHYSICALLY WRONG.
IT MIGHT JUST BE STRESS FROM TOO
MUCH WORK.
>> Yoko: WELL, EVEN THOUGH HE’S
A KID, HE’S BEEN OUT FIGHTING IN
GURREN DAY AFTER DAY.
IT’S NOT SURPRISING THAT HE’S
COLLAPSED.
>> Ron: I DON’T REALLY
THINK YOU’RE IN A POSITION TO
BE MAKING THAT ASSESSMENT.
>> Yoko: WHAT ARE YOU GETTING
AT?
>> Ron: DON’T YOU THINK THAT
LATELY YOU’VE BEEN PUSHING
YOURSELF JUST A LITTLE TOO HARD?
>> Yoko: NOT REALLY.
I’M JUST DOING WHAT NEEDS TO BE
DONE.
>> AWESOME! LOOKS LIKE WE’RE
GONNA GET A TASTE OF "PALACE
FOOD."
>> OH, MAN, NIA’S SO CUTE WHEN
SHE’S WORKING HARD.
>> I’VE BEEN FASTING SINCE
YESTERDAY TO GET READY FOR THIS
MEAL!
>> THAT’S GOING A LITTLE TOO
FAR, DUDE.
>> Yoko: WOW, I’M KIND OF
IMPRESSED.
>> Simon: NIA SAID SHE WANTED TO
WORK, TOO.
>> Nia: EVERYBODY!
IT’S ALMOST READY!
[cheering]
[alarm blares]
>> Dayakka: ENEMY FORCES?
>> Kinon: WELL, THAT’S WHAT’S
KINDA STRANGE.
JUDGING FROM THE SIZE OF THE
OBJECT, I’D SAY IT’S A
BATTLESHIP.
BUT THESE COORDINATES HERE
INDICATE THAT IT’S IN THE AIR.
>> Artenborough: IN THE AIR?
>> Dayakka: AH, COME ON.
THAT’S IMPOSSIBLE.
>> Ron: THE RADAR IS WORKING
PROPERLY, BUT IF WE REALLY ARE
ABOUT TO DEAL WITH AN AIRBORNE
ENEMY, HOW DO WE GO ABOUT
ATTACKING THEM?
>> Cytomander: THE TIME HAS
FINALLY COME TO DEMONSTRATE
MY POWER.
YOUR MAJESTY THE SPIRAL KING,
WATCH THIS BATTLE CLOSELY!
[snickers]
ALL UNITS, ADVANCE!
>> Simon: YOKO!
>> Yoko: I’M TAKING OVER FOR
ROSSIU!
I’LL PILOT GURREN.
>> Simon: I CAN DO IT FINE BY
MYSELF!
>> Yoko: DON’T THINK I’M UP TO
THE TASK, DO YA?
I HAVE BEEN PRACTICING,
JUST SO YA KNOW.
>> Simon: NO, I DIDN’T
MEAN THAT.
>> Yoko: WELL, THAT SETTLES IT!
>> Simon: OH...
[Boota sighing]
[grunts]
>> Simon: BOOTA!
>> Yoko: OH, BOOTA!
YOU’RE GONNA GO WITH ME?
[Boota grunts]
>> Kittan: ALL RIGHT!
YOU BASTARDS, COME AND GET
SOME OF WHAT I GOT!
WHAT’S THE MATTER?
COME DOWN HERE, COWARDS!
FIGHT ME, DAMN IT!
FIGHT ME!
>> Kiyoh: SECOND WAVE
CLOSING IN!
>> Kiyal: COME AND GET IT!
>> Kiyal: I’LL REMEMBER THIS,
AND IT AIN’T GONNA HAPPEN AGAIN!
[bombs whistling]
>> Artenborough: YOU BASTARDS!
CHEW ON THIS!
>> Cytomander: WEAKLINGS!
SUCH WEAKLINGS!
THEY DISPATCHED THYMILPH
AND ADIANE.
THEY EVEN GAVE GUAME
A HARD TIME.
AT FIRST, I WAS UNSURE HOW
FORMIDABLE THEY WOULD
ACTUALLY BE.
[chuckles]
IT’S NOT THAT THEY’RE WEAK,
PER SE.
PERHAPS IT’S SIMPLY THAT I AM
TOO POWERFUL!
[laughs]
>> Yoko: DAYAKKA, WE’RE GOING
OUT IN GURREN LAGANN!
>> Dayakka: IF YOU GO OUT THERE
NOW, YOU’LL BE SITTING DUCKS!
>> Simon: NO, WE WON’T!
COME ON, LEERON, THROW US AGAIN.
>> Ron: ARE YOU SURE?
>> Yoko: WE DON’T HAVE TIME
TO ARGUE!
>> Dayakka: DON’T SAY I DIDN’T
WARN YOU!
>> Simon: DO IT!
>> Dayakka: THROW ’EM!
>> Simon: DAMN IT!
BASTARD!
>> Yoko: SIMON, TAKE A LOOK AT
THIS!
>> Simon: HEY, YEAH!
MAYBE WE CAN INTEGRATE THAT
THING!
IT WORKED!
WE DID IT, YOKO!
>> Yoko: YEAH, ALL RIGHT!
NOW WE CAN ATTACK THAT FLYING
BATTLESHIP!
>> Kittan: DAMN, THAT WAS
REALLY COOL.
>> Kiyoh: HI, BROTHER!
>> Kiyal: HEY, MOVE OVER!
>> Kittan: KIYOH AND KIYAL?
HEY, TAKE IT EASY!
>> Kiyal: LET’S PAY ’EM BACK
TEN TIMES OVER!
>> Zorthy: NOT SO FAST!
WE WANT A PIECE OF THE ACTION,
TOO!
>> Kidd: IF THIS KEEPS UP MUCH
LONGER, WE WON’T GET TO EAT
NIA’S COOKING.
>> Jorgun and Balinbow: HER
COOKING, HER COOKING!
>> Kittan: OKAY!
LET’S SHOW THOSE BASTARDS WHAT
TEAM DAI‐GURREN IS MADE OF!
TIME TO BEGIN THE COUNTERATTACK!
>> Yoko: FLY DOWN THEIR THROATS!
>> Simon: YOU GOT IT!
>> ENEMY GUNMEN CLOSING IN FAST!
>> Cytomander: WHAT?
IMPOSSIBLE!
>> Viral: DIDN’T THINK I’D GET
TO FACE HIM.
IT’S BEEN A WHILE, YOU DUMB
NAKED APE!
>> Simon: YOU AGAIN, VIRAL?
>> Viral: DO YOU HAVE THE
SLIGHTEST IDEA...
THE DEPTHS OF MY SHAME?
THE HUMILIATION OF BEING THE
SOLE SURVIVOR?!
BEGGING TO TAKE PART IN THIS
BATTLE...
SO THAT I MIGHT HAVE THE CHANCE
TO FACE YOU?
>> Simon: AW, DAMN IT!
HAVEN’T GOT THE HANG OF FLYING
YET!
>> Yoko: I’LL TRY TO CLEAR
A PATH FOR US!
>> Yoko: ARE YOU KIDDING ME?
>> Simon: YOKO!
>> Viral: YOU WON’T GET AWAY!
>> VIRAL AND THE ENEMY HAVE
CRASHED RIGHT INTO THE
LEVI‐SPHERE CONTROL ROOM!
>> Cytomander: THEY’VE WHAT?
[Yoko grunting, whimpering]
>> Simon: YOKO?
>> Yoko: WHAT’S WITH THE WORRIED
LOOK?
DON’T WORRY, SIMON.
IT’S NOTHING SERIOUS.
[groaning]
>> Simon: YOKO!
>> Viral: WHERE IS IS KAMINA?
WHY IS THERE ONLY A WOMAN AND A
CHILD HERE?
WHERE DID KAMINA GO?
>> Simon: MY BRO ISN’T HERE.
YOU’RE LOOKING FOR BRO?
HE’S DEAD.
>> Viral: HE’S WHAT?
>> Viral: ARE YOU TELLING ME...
HE DIED BACK THEN?
KAMINA’S DEAD?
YOU’RE SAYING THAT I’VE BEEN
LOSING TO YOU...
TO A CHILD?
YOUR NAME...WHAT IS IT?
>> Simon: SIMON.
>> Yoko: SIMON, YOU CAN’T DO IT
ALONE!
>> Simon: I’LL BE OKAY.
DON’T YOU WORRY, YOKO.
I’M GOING TO PROTECT YOU.
>> Viral: THAT’S A FINE
ATTITUDE.
I WOULDN’T WANT YOU TO CLAIM YOU
LOST BECAUSE YOU HAD A WOUNDED
WOMAN ON BOARD.
AN INSULT DONE TO ME BY A GUNMEN
WILL BE REPAID BY MY GUNMEN!
THAT’S HOW I ROLL, HUMAN!
>> NUMBER TWO LEVI‐SPHERE
OUTPUT FALLING FAST!
UNABLE TO MAINTAIN ALTITUDE!
>> Cytomander: WHAT?
>> PUTTING UP A VISUAL NOW.
>> Cytomander: VIRAL, WHAT DO
YOU THINK YOU’RE DOING!?
>> Kittan: HEY, IT LOOKS LIKE
THEY’RE ON FIRE UP THERE!
>> Dayakka: YEAH, I SEE THAT!
>> Kittan: NOW’S OUR CHANCE.
LET’S HIT ’EM REAL HARD!
>> Ron: WE’VE TAKEN A POUNDING,
TOO.
OUR MAIN CANNON ARE GONE.
THE ENGINE ROOM COULD SHUT DOWN
ANY SECOND!
>> Kittan: AW, COME ON,
THIS IS FRUSTRATING!
SIMON AND YOKO ARE FIGHTING IN
THE BELLY OF THE BEAST.
WHAT’S THE BIG IDEA, NOT BACKING
’EM UP?
LET ME FLY UP THERE AND KICK
THEIR ASSES MYSELF!
[Ron snaps fingers]
>> Ron: MM. GOOD IDEA.
>> Viral: HOW CAN THIS BE?
HOW CAN I BE LOSING TO A LOWLY
HUMAN CUB?!
>> Simon: I’M PUTTING AN END
TO THIS, VIRAL...RIGHT HERE!
[fighting in background]
>> Yoko: I SEE.
SO HE CAN FIGHT PERFECTLY WELL
ON HIS OWN.
[explosion]
>> Cytomander: YOU IN THE
GUNMEN, STAY WHERE YOU ARE!
OTHERWISE, I’LL CRUSH THIS
SHE‐APE FLAT!
>> Viral: GENERAL CYTOMANDER!
>> Cytomander: HOW LONG
DO YOU PLAN TO KEEP FOOLING
AROUND, VIRAL?
>> Viral: FORGIVE ME, SIR.
>> Cytomander: I’M NOT
INTERESTED IN HEARING EXCUSES.
FINISH HIM!
>> Viral: YES, SIR.
>> Yoko: DON’T JUST STAND THERE,
SIMON!
KEEP FIGHTING!
>> Cytomander: STAY QUIET!
>> Simon: VIRAL, YOU’RE PLAYING
DIRTY.
THIS HAPPENS EVERY SINGLE TIME.
IS THIS HOW YOU REALLY DO
THINGS?
>> Leyte: HEY, LEERON, ARE YOU
SURE YOU WANT TO DO THIS?
>> Ron: JUST THIS ONCE!
HOLD IT TOGETHER!
>> Leyte: YOU CAN COUNT ON ME!
>> Dayakka: DAI‐GURREN!
FULL SPEED AHEAD!
[rock music]
♪ ♪
>> Cytomander: DAMN YOU.
WHAT ARE YOU PLAYING AT?
>> Viral: I MUSTN’T SETTLE
THINGS WITH A HUMAN IN
THIS MANNER, GENERAL.
THERE’S NO HONOR IN FIGHTING
THIS WAY.
>> Cytomander: HAVE YOU
LOST YOUR MIND?
YOU’VE FORGOTTEN THE DEBT YOU
OWE ME FOR PULLING YOU UP FROM
NOWHERE...
VIRAL!
>> Kittan: [charging yell]
>> AAH! IT’S A FLYING KICK!
>> DODGE IT!
DODGE IT!
>> Dayakka: IT DIDN’T WORK.
WE JUST CLIPPED ’EM!
>> Kittan: DON’T GIVE UP! GO!
>> Cytomander: WHAT?
UGH!
>> Simon: YOKO! ARE YOU OKAY?
>> Yoko: YEAH, SOMEHOW.
BOOTA WAS BRAVE ENOUGH TO
PROTECT ME.
[Boota agrees]
>> Simon: WHAT ABOUT THE OTHERS?
>> Ron: WHY, THAT LOOKS
LIKE SOME SORT OF FLYING DEVICE!
PERFECT TIMING!
GRAB IT QUICKLY!
>> Artenborough: WE’VE GOT IT!
>> Cytomander: WHAT THE HELL
IS GOING ON?
>> WE LOST LEVI‐SPHERE
NUMBER ONE!
WE CAN’T MAINTAIN BALANCE!
>> Cytomander: KEEP US LEVEL,
WHATEVER IT TAKES!
>> Y‐YES, SIR!
>> Cytomander: VIRAL...
YOU WILL PAY DEARLY FOR THIS.
>> Viral: YES, SIR.
>> Dayakka: THE ENEMY SHIP?
>> Kinon: IT’S RETREATING.
>> Simon: WE DID IT.
SOMEHOW WE DROVE ’EM OFF.
>> Yoko: SIMON, DID YOU KNOW?
DID YOU KNOW THAT I...
I KINDA HAD A THING FOR KAMINA.
>> Simon: MM‐HMM. YEAH, I KNEW.
>> Yoko: YOU DID, HUH?
>> Ron: YOUR BONES AND ORGANS
SEEM TO BE IN WORKING ORDER.
A LITTLE BED REST, AND YOU’LL
BE UP AND ABOUT, AS GOOD AS NEW.
>> Yoko: [giggles]
IT CAN BE A REAL PAIN, BEING AS
TOUGH AS I AM.
[door hisses]
>> Nia: ARE YOU DOING ALL RIGHT,
MISS YOKO?
>> Yoko: YEAH, I’M FINE.
I’M FINE!
LEERON’S OVERREACTING A LITTLE,
THAT’S ALL.
DON’T WORRY ABOUT ME.
>> Nia: THANK GOODNESS.
[stomach growls]
>> Nia: IF YOU’RE HUNGRY, SIMON,
LET’S ALL GO TO THE KITCHEN
AND EAT THE DINNER I MADE
EARLIER.
>> Yoko: WEREN’T YOU LISTENING
TO ME EARLIER?
EATING PROPERLY IS PART OF YOUR
JOB!
GO ON, SHOO!
>> Simon: I’LL COME BY LATER,
YOKO.
>> Nia: I WILL COME VISIT YOU
AS WELL.
[Ron and Yoko chuckle]
[Rossiu screams]
>> Ron and Yoko: ROSSIU?
[toilet flushes]
>> Rossiu: THE THING IS,
IT ALL STARTED YESTERDAY.
I WAS WALKING BY THE GALLEY, AND
NIA ASKED ME TO BE HER TASTE
TESTER.
THE TASTE WAS LIKE NOTHING I
HAVE EVER PUT IN MY MOUTH
BEFORE.
IT WAS NOT OF THIS WORLD.
HOWEVER, SHE...SHE LOOKED SO
EXCITED AND HAPPY AS SHE WAS
COOKING, THAT I JUST...
I COULDN’T BRING MYSELF TO COME
OUT AND TELL HER THAT I THOUGHT
IT WAS AWFUL.
AND SO I FORCED MYSELF TO SAMPLE
EVERY DISH.
[groans]
>> Ron: AH, SO THAT’S WHAT
CAUSED IT.
>> Ron and Yoko: OH, NO!
>> Nia: ALL RIGHT, NOW,
THERE’S PLENTY TO GO AROUND!
DON’T BE SHY!
EAT UP, EVERYONE!
[soft groans, moans]
>> Simon: IT’S GREAT!
>> Cytomander: THE OPERATION’S
FAILURE RESTS ENTIRELY ON THIS
MAN’S INSUBORDINATION.
NOT ONLY IS HE INCOMPETENT, HE
IS DEFIANT, A FOOL BEYOND ANY
HOPE OF REDEMPTION!
I ASK THAT YOU SENTENCE HIM
TO DEATH!
>> Lordgenome: REALLY?
>> Viral: MAJESTY!
IF YOU ORDER ME TO DIE, THEN I
WILL GLADLY OBEY YOUR WISHES.
BUT BEFORE THAT HAPPENS, THERE
IS SOMETHING THAT I MUST KNOW!
>> Cytomander: RESTRAIN
YOURSELF!
>> Lordgenome: VERY WELL.
ASK YOUR QUESTION.
>> Viral: THESE HUMANS, ARE
THEY TRULY CREATURES INFERIOR TO
BEASTMEN?
THESE HUMANS...
WHAT THE HELL ARE THEY?
>> Lordgenome: HMM.
CYTOMANDER, LEAVE US.
>> Cytomander: SIRE?
>> Lordgenome: I WILL SEE TO
THIS MAN.
>> Cytomander: Y‐YES, SIRE.
>> Lordgenome: BEASTMEN ARE
IMPERFECT CREATURES.
TO MAINTAIN THEIR POWERFUL
BODIES, IT IS ESSENTIAL FOR
THEM TO GO INTO A DEATHLIKE
SLEEP...DURING WHICH TIME,
THEIR CELLS REJUVENATE.
IF ONE WERE TO STAY AWAKE, EVERY
CELL IN HIS BODY WOULD DIE.
>> Viral: SPIRAL KING, IT IS
YOU WHO GAVE BEASTMEN LIFE.
WHY WOULD YOU GIVE US FLAWED
BODIES?
>> Lordgenome: [laughs]
WHAT ARE HUMANS?
WELL, DO YOU REALLY WISH TO
KNOW THE ANSWER?
DO YOU, VIRAL?
>> Viral: YES!
[rock music]
♪ ♪
[man singing in Japanese]
>> Nia: NO MATTER HOW THICK
THE WALL, IT WILL EVENTUALLY
CRUMBLE.
WITH THAT BELIEF, WE CONTINUE TO
POUND THE WALL TOGETHER.
NEXT TIME ON GURREN LAGANN...
"WELL MET, EVERYONE."